Example multiple choice question with n red herrings where n is any integer greater than zero

Prompt of question

Correct answer
Red herring 1
Red herring 2
...
Red herring n-1
Red herring n


#Motion
A Feather and a ball of greater mass is held at a height h above the ground in a vacuum.
What will happen when both objects are dropped.

They will land at the same time
The ball will land first
The feather will land first
There is not enough information to come to a conclusion

A cannon ball is to be launched at an angle θ from the horizontal.
What value of θ will result in the greatest displacement from the horizontal?

45°
0°
30°
60°

The missile of mass m is dropped from a vertical drone directly above a terrorist hideout.
The missile falls until it reaches a terminal velocity of v.
What is the value of the drag force D on the missile just before it reaches the target?

mg N
2mg N
mv N
0 N

You throw a card vertically upwards at t=0. The card reaches a maximum height at t=T.
At what value of t will the card reach your hand?
Assume air resistance is negligible.

2T s
3T s
T+2 s
T² s

A mocking bird flying at a height h directly above the sea is shot dead by a hunter on a boat.
How long does the hunter have before the bird hits the sea?
Assume air resistance is negligible.

√(2gh) s
½gh s
gh s
√(3g) s

#Forces & Vectors
Three forces, each of magnitude F, act on a point at right angles to each other.
What is the magnitude of the resultant force on that point?

√3F N
3F N
0 N
Three forces cannot all be at right angles to each other

A rope is used to pull a box with a tension T at an angle of θ to the horizontal.
What is the magnitude of the vertical component of tension?

Tsinθ
Tcosθ
Ttanθ
T

A rope is used to pull a box with a tension T at an angle of θ to the horizontal.
What is the magnitude of the horizontal component of tension?

Tcosθ
Tsinθ
Ttanθ
T

A feather of mass m floats through the air horizontally at a constant velocity.
A fan underneath provides a constant force at an angle θ to the horizontal.
What is the magnitude of force the fan provides?

mg/sinθ
mg/cosθ
mg
mgcosθ

Alice sits at a distance d from the centre of a seesaw whilst Bob sits at 2d from the centre on the other side.
Given that the seesaw is in equilibrium, how much does Alice weight in comparison to alice?

Alice weights twice as much as Bob
Alice weights half as much as Bob
Alice and Bob both weight the same
There is not enough information to come to a conclusion

#Energy
A picture frame falls from a wall at a height h after a supporting thread is torn.
What is the velocity of the frame just before it shatters?
Assume air resistance is negligible.

√(2gh)
√(gh)
2gh
gh

A biker pushes a broken down motorcycle with a horizontal force of F up a slope at an angle of θ to the horizontal.
The motorcycle is pushed up the slope by a height of h.
What is the work done on the bike by the biker?

Fh/tanθ
Fh
Fhcosθ
Fh/sinθ

What is the SI unit of a kilowatt hour?

Js
Kwh
Kw/h
J/s

The earth orbits the sun in a near circular orbit with the sun's gravitational force always at right angles to the velocity of the earth.
What is the work done by the gravitational force of the sun on the motion of the earth in one year?
Take the gravitational force to be F and the radius of orbit as r.

0 Nm
2ᴨrF Nm
Fr Nm
There is not enough information to come to a conclusion

A bullet of mass m is travelling at an initial velocity of v.
The bullet splits in half as it hits the car door, with one of the halves passing through the car door with 50% of it's initial speed.
What is the energy transferred to the car door?

0.4375mv²
0.5mv²
0.25mv²
mv²

#Materials
What is the SI unit of the spring constant K?

N/m
Nm
N/m²
Nm²

#Newton's laws & Momentum
You are an astronaut on a space walk and your tether to the ISS has just snapped.
You are now drifting away from the space station at a velocity v.
What do you do in order to gain momentum towards the spacecraft?

Throw an object away from the spacecraft
Throw an object towards the spacecraft
Throw an object perpendicular to the spacecraft
Do nothing; gravity will pull you towards the ISS

Which one of these pairs of forces is NOT an interaction pair according to Newton's third law of motion?

The weight of a stationary object on the earth and the normal contact force on the same object
The weight of a falling object and the earth's attraction towards the object
The repulsive electrical forces between the north poles of two bar magnets
The electrostatic repulsive contact forces between two colliding objects

A white snooker ball of mass m and velocity v collides head-on with a red stationary snooker ball.
What will happen after the two balls collide?
Assume that the collision is perfectly elastic.

The white snooker ball will stop and the red snooker ball will move at a velocity v
The white snooker ball will change direction and the red snooker will remain at rest
The white snooker ball will stop and the red snooker ball will move at a velocity 0.5v
Both balls will move in opposite directions, both at a velocity v

According to Newton's first law of motion, what will happen to a meteorite moving in space at a constant velocity of 2.0x10 m/s?
Assume that there are no external forces acting on the meteorite.

The meteorite will continue to move at a constant velocity
The meteorite will continue to accelerate
The meteorite will start to decelerate
There is not enough information to come to a conclusion

According to Newton's second law of motion, the net force is directly proportional to what?

Rate of change in linear momentum
Change in linear momentum
The square of linear momentum
The reciprocal of linear momentum

In a perfectly elastic collision, which of these quantities are always conserved?

Total energy, Momentum, and kinetic energy
Total energy and Momentum
Total energy and kinetic energy
Total energy, Momentum, kinetic energy and mass.
